Introduction

Have you ever wondered which movies stay ranked in IMDBs list overtime? Or which movie won the most awards? In this project we aim to analyze IMDB data to see what factors contribute to their top 250 movies list. We will be using a 2021 list obtained from Kaggle titled IMDB Top 250 Movies Dataset  as well as scraping the most current list from IMDB.com  and scraping additional metrics of the movies not available in our downloaded dataset. Using this data, we aim to compare how the list has changed since 2021 and filter out which were ranked in 2021 are still ranked in 2024. 

Data 

The Internet Movie Database (IMDB) is one of the biggest public platforms providing users with comprehensive data and information on their favorite movies. IMDB.com provides it users with data such as reviews, awards, cast information, production details, and variety of ratings. These ratings include, the IMDB rating (based on worldwide user rating), the IMDB rank (based on IMDB rating), the metascore (based on a combination of user and critic reviews) and popularity score (measured level of engagement with the title on IMDB and seasonal relevance). These metrics are widely used and recognized as benchmarks for the overall success of a movie. We plan to use these to measure the change of a movies’ public perception from 2021 to 2024.

We obtained our first dataset in the form of a .csv file found on Kaggle.com titled “IMDB Top 250 Movies Dataset”. We renamed this dataset “2021_List_Top_250_Movies_Cleaned.csv” after cleaning, accounting for any necessary filtering, data type changes and removal of columns unnecessary for our analysis. This dataset was previously scraped from IMBD.com in 2021 based on ratings, and information such as title, release year, director, and cast. None of the data was altered or modified in any way at the time of collection and was collected in accordance with IMDB’s terms of use. The dataset provides a snapshot of the highest rated movies in 2021 to gain insights on the movie industry, trends, and popular genres at the time.

Our second dataset was created by scraping IMDb’s 2024 Top 250 Movies list. The data collected during this process includes all listed movie titles, release years, runtimes, ratings and URLs. We identified some key metrics left out of the 2021 dataset that we would like to further observe including an updated rank, metascore, popularity score and number of Oscars won by each movie. Due to the steps required to scrape additional details, the raw data will be split into two separate CSV files. The first file, titled “top_250_raw.csv” will contain all the information about the movies found directly on the list e.g title, rank, rating, runtime, and year. The second file, titled "top_250_details_raw.csv" will include additional details from each movie’s individual page, such as the metascore, popularity score, and the number of Oscars won. These two datasets were cleaned separately, accounting for any necessary filtering, re-ordering and datatype changes. After cleaning “top_250_cleaned.cvs” and “top_250_details_cleaned” were merged horizontally using an inner join to match corresponding URLs. We used an inner join here as all the URLs match and there is no additional data to be concerned about. This created a new simplified and clean data file titled “2024_List_Top_250_Movies_Cleaned_Merged.csv”. We do not plan to update box office revenue as of 2024 due to the continuous change in gross revenue. We will do any revenue calculations upon 2021 data to ensure consistent and accurate information.

Now that we have two clean sets of data, how will we combine them to perform our analysis? We recognize that some of the movies ranked in 2021 may no longer be ranked in 2024 and the same can be said for the inverse as the past analysis could not account for movies that did not exist at the time. 

To ensure we are merging our data accurately we aimed to simplify our approach by merging “2021_List_Top_250_Movies_Cleaned.csv” to “2024_List_Top_250_Movies_Cleaned_Mer
ged.csv” horizontally, with an inner join using the title, runtime, and year columns. This type of join ensures only matching attributes are aggregated and the final dataset includes only movies that are present in both the 2021 and 2024 lists. This new file is titled “2021_2024_List_Movies.
csv” contains null values for any numerical columns that did not have the requested information available and will be used to perform our final analysis.
